# Starter Template for React and Webpack

Table of Contents:

1. [Purpose](#purpose)
2. [Folder Structure](#folder-structure)
3. [Getting the Project Started](#getting-the-project-running)
4. [Notes](#notes)

<br> 

# Purpose 

Aloha mai kākou! <br> 

This is a simple starter template for React and Webpack. I included code comments and also have some explanations in this README.md to explain why certain things are set up this way and how they might be beneficial for you as a developer. My main goal for this template repository is to (hopefully) help you build confidence and knowledge in how to create and configure your own project without the need for a build tool like `npx create-react-app`. 

**Side Note**: If you're wondering, the MIT License allows you to use and modify the template to your liking. If you want some more info you can go to this site: [Choose a License - MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) 


## Implementations

- [React](https://react.dev/reference/react) 
- [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/) 
- Webpack Dev Server

<br> 

# Folder Structure

*note: the order that the folders are organized may not match up but that's okay. It's more important to understand what each folder does*

<br> 

- **node_modules** - dependencies and packages installed by npm
- **public** - the folder or build that users online will see
    - **assets** - icons or images that the HTML files will use
    - **dist** - output generated by Webpack
- **src** - folder that contains all your source code
    - **assets** - assets such as videos, pictures or icons that will be used by your React components and/or pages
    - **components** - React components
    - **pages** - React pages
    - **styles** - styles for your components and pages


## Important Files

- **.gitignore** - tells Git what files to ignore pushing to your remote repository
- **LICENSE.txt** - license that tells other people what they can and can't do with your code
- **webpack.config.js** - base configuration file for Webpack
- **webpack.dev.js** - configuration file for development
- **webpack.prod.js** - configuration file for production
- **package.json and package-lock.json** - stores your npm dependencies and also helps you run scripts for your project like getting the development server on. 


<br>

# Getting The Project Running

1. Run `npm install` in the terminal to install all the project dependencies
2. (only need to do this when you first clone/copy the repository) Run `npx webpack --config webpack.dev.js` to generate the dist folder 
3. Start the development server by running `npm start` in the terminal
4. Make your changes and do whatchu gotta do
5. Save your changes and exit the dev server


## Production

Once you are happy with your changes and finish your project, you can run `npm run build` in your terminal to create the production build for your project. 


## Adding A New Page

1. Create your file in src/pages
    - It's important that you make sure the first letter in your file is **uppercased** so that you can render the page in your HTML file
    - It's also important that you create your root for your React file, see example below: 

```jsx
import { createRoot } from 'react-dom/client';
import * as React from 'react';
// import your React components and styles here

const MyPage = () => {
    return(
        <>
            {/* Put Code Here */}
        </>
    );
}

// This is the important part
const root = document.getElementById('root');
createRoot(root).render(<Index />);
```


2. In the terminal you can run `npm run build` or `npx webpack`, basically this is to generate the code bundle for your new HTML page to reference
3. In your public folder, create a new file with the name of your page, then add the HTML boiler plate code
4. In the HTML file create a `<script src=>` tag and add the path to your generated bundle. See example below: 

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>My New Page</title>
</head>
<body> 
    <noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view this website</noscript>
    <div id="root"></div>
    <script src="dist/mynewpage.js"></script>
</body> 
</html>
```

<br>

# Notes

## Folder Structure

- The src folder is named that to keep your files tidy so that whenever you see that folder, you'll know that all your source code that you used to make the project is there. Each folder inside such as assets, components, pages, and styles help to seperate your source code into different sections to keep it organized and easier to manage / maintain

- The public folder is there to indicate to you that this is the code that should be made available for people online to see. 


## Git Ignore

The reason why node_modules and the dist folders are ignored by git is so that it doesn't mess up other developers when they attempt to clone or fork your repository. This is because the node_modules folder will be created when somebody runs `npm install` and the dist folder will also be created when a user runs `npx webpack --config webpack.dev.js`


## Webpack

Here, I will talk about important options for configuring your Webpack file. 

- why multiple files? The reason why I split up the files is to create different configurations for your different environments, instead of keeping it all in one file and having Webpack be confused as to what you're trying to do. Instead it will look at the base configuration file, then add in the extra options specified by either the `webpack.dev.js` or `webpack.prod.js` file. 

- what is the deal with *publicPath* and why is it important? The publicPath option specifies to the browser or server where to find your generated files, so that it can properly serve them when it is referenced by your code. While there is an `auto` option, sometimes this can still lead to errors with finding where these assets or code bundles are generated. Here are some tips I learned about how to use the correct publicPath: 

    - If we having the browser serve the generated content, then we need to use a relative path to the `dist` folder. Example: `./dist` (this is relative to the HTML page (I think))
    - If we are using a server or CDN to serve the generated content, then we need to use an absolute path. Example: `/dist/` (absolute)

<br> 

## Webpack Dev Server

Implemented this feature instead of something such as `webpack --mode development --watch` because of the features that dev server provides. For example, if you are working on a full stack project and implementing a backend API, you can configure webpack dev server so that it can make requests to your API. This makes it easier to develop and debug both your frontend and backend. 
